So welcome to Introducing AI
Pathfinding! In this video we're going to put a Nav Mesh Bounds Volume, this green thing,
into our world. It looks like this from the 3D View and then like this from the Top.
And it will work out where you can navigate, where you can't, and we'll be talking about how the
AI system is going to allow tanks to navigate around obstructions and
take the shortest feasible path to us, to come and attack us!
OK, so it's with some excitement I'm going to introduce you to AI
Pathfinding! So the first thing, really, when you are trying to do pathfinding
is to firstly understand what pathfinding is. So the concept is
that, when you need to navigate around something like this big obstruction in
the middle of the scene here, then it's not a trivial task to
work out how to get from one side of this to the other, especially if it has things like
culdesacs in it; i.e. if we were to dig in an area a bit like this
area around here actually, what's to stop the tank from going in, come directly
towards us, and then having to come out? And we don't want it doing that, we want it to take what
appears to be an intelligent path around this obstruction,
and that's where the artificial intelligence comes in. And there's a
lot of standard ways of doing this. Unreal is probably using something like this called A Star Pathfinding,
under the hood, which you can find all about by just having a look on the web for "a star".
And you probably better put the word pathfinding on the end, otherwise you get
all sorts of rubbish. And you can read, starting on Wikipedia, about
how this grid based system works for finding,
from one place to another. There's a nice little animation right here, actually, which gives you some ideas to the
types of calculations that are going on. But let's see it actually working
inside Unreal. That would be fun wouldn't it?! So the first thing that you need to do
is... And you don't need to follow me through on this, because your challenge is going to be to add this thing in, is
to add in a Nav Mesh Bounds Volume. So just watch me do it to start with
and then, in just under a minute I would have thought, I will be challenging you to do your own. So
under the modes tab, if you search for Nav Mesh, or
if you want to know where it is another way you can go to Volumes and then look through until you find
Nav Mesh Bounds Volume here. You could click the question mark
and it will take you to some docs, which will tell you all about how that works and I suggest you probably
read those. I'll put these links in the resources for you. So
Nav Mesh Bounds Volume, we drop it in the world right. There it is, pretty small! I'm going to scale it and I'd like you
to scale yours, as well, to 1,000 meters
by 1,000 meters. Oh, now that's a bit big for now. Let's
go 100. Yeah, 100 by 100, for now, just to keep the speed up,
because I don't know how fast your computers are, by say 10 meters.
OK, now you're welcome to follow along, or as I said, in just a moment I'll challenge you to do it.
And then, what I'm going to want you to do is move it up and down and move it around and see the effect it has.
The green things are places where the agents will be able, i.e. the AI tanks
will be able to drive. And the red bits, I'm sorry, and the bits that are not shaded are
places that it will not be able to drive, and the red bits are the bits that it has not
yet calculated the navigation mesh for. Now, you won't see this,
what I'm seeing on my screen, unless you go to Show and Navigation. Now there's a P key
shortcut for that, so you can click into the Viewport and click P
and that will do it. So that's what I want you to do for now. I'll put the challenge slide up.
So place your Nav Mesh Bounds Volume! Place 100 by 100 meter
bound volume in the world. Make sure you have obstruction brackets
s... That's not quite a brackets s is it? Let's make it a brackets (s). Obstructions,
at least one obstruction in your world, like a hill for example.
See the effect of raising and lowering that Nav Mesh Volume,
like I just did, and have a play with it yourself, and then, when you're finished, leave it so that it
has a sensible amount of green on the bits where you want your tanks, your
AI tanks to be able to drive, and everything else should be uncolored. And leave the player's
start and at least one AI tank inside the Nav Mesh Volume. In order
for the AI tank to navigate to the player, both the AI tank and the player will need to
be in the Nav Mesh Volume, in order for it to calculate the path
around the obstacles between the AI tank and the player. So go ahead pause the video, and
setup your Nav Mesh Bounds now. You may be
wondering why I've chosen 100 by 100 meters, rather than the whole play space. We'll increase it later, it just takes
a long time to recalculate, so let's use a small one to start with.
OK welcome back! So I've pretty much done this challenge for you, I'm just going to
make my screen a little bit larger with F11. I'm going to hit P to bring on the Nav Mesh
display like this. I'm going to try and click somewhere on the edge of the volume, so that I can get this up and
down control. And notice, if you take it down through the floor that you have no
valid Nav Mesh surfaces, and if you bring it up in the air then,
because the bottom of the volume is only just clipping the top
of these mountains or hills in the middle here, then the only place they could
navigate would be on the hills. That's exactly what we don't want! So what you want to do is you want to bring it down,
so that it maybe can consider navigating the
very bottoms of the hills but not anymore. So that's it! You could make your hills a little bit
more interesting. In fact, next time we iterate around to the world, we might well do that now just to give some
more interesting navigation qualities. But that's all I wanted you to do there, was create that
Nav Mesh Bounds Volume. Great! So this is the arena in which
things can actually navigate! I'm going to get rid of the tank that slides down the hill, and I'm
going to leave us with one tank... Let's just go to the Top view actually. F11,
top view zoom out, and I'm just going
to move these tanks. I'm going to have one AI tank here, well
inside the Nav Mesh Volume, and I'm going to have another a little bit outside the volume, like it is.
And what that means is, that when we start to explore
what happens, in terms of the code and these methods, one of these tanks should be able to navigate,
the other guy should not. And the Player Start, of course, where is the Player Start? Let's take a look!
It's here, that's fine! It's also in the inside. Now when you're playing, of course,
you can't see that Nav Mesh, even if you hit the P key, but it is something
you can see in the Editor and, for now, we will leave it on. That's Show, Navigation.
OK fantastic! So now that you've seen what a Nav Mesh Volume is, this
light green thing, and it's fully calculated hopefully on your terrain, it's going to
be a good time for me to talk about how we're going to make this stuff work.
So we have a Tank AI Controller right, we have that class we've made,
that inherited from AI Controller. Now I'm putting AI Controller
inside, because inheriting from, and even though it's a childing relationship, it's a bit like putting
a wrapper on the outside of AI Controller and extending the function of AI
Controller. It's like Russian dolls, AI Controller in turn is based on something else and something
else. OK so the AI Controller
has a method on it, or one of its parents, but we don't care about what's inside AI
Controller, at the moment, but we know that at the AI Controller level, we have a method
called MoveToActor(). And what that does is it moves to a
particular actor, i.e. the player, and it also, you'll see later, it has another parameter
which is na acceptance radius. It says we'll move to the player until you get close enough, that's what it's saying.
Alright, so what this means is that our Tank AI Controller class that
we have actually has that method, MoveToActor(), ready to use,
because it's in AI Controller. Now how do you know that? Well if you want,
the easy way to know that is to buy this course, the intelligent thing, and let us do all the hard
work. If you want to work it out for yourself, well then you would go to the AI Controller,
you'd go to the header file, you would then start looking at the
definition of an AI Controller, now you're in the engine code. You see this tab on the right-hand side
with a lock, also the Solution explorer is highlighting the engine. And then, you would troll
through a few million lines of code to find out where these methods are and how they
work, but I'm going to skip you the pain of that and just tell you that the Move
ToActor() method is the one that we want. Now, on the other side of the equation, we have the
Tank Movement Component, which, of course, we have built upon a
Nav Movement Component. Now you'll remember that we use Nav Movement Component because,
let's look at the class hierarchy once again as a reminder. We used it because it was the
simplest class that we could use, that actually implemented some sort of
pathfinding. So if we just start on the Class Viewer here and
turn off Actors Only. ActorComponent, MovementComponent,
NavMovementComponent. Now as you hover over these things, you find out that NavMovementComponent is
the first one that talk about AI pathfinding but without the extra complexity and
weight of the PawnMovementComponent or anything deeper than that.
OK great, so that is the NavMovementComponent! Inside NavMovementComponent,
if you give yourself the self flagellation of going through the engine code,
eventually you'll find that you have RequestDirectMove() in there, which is
a method that does exactly that. It requests that an Actor
moves directly towards a particular position. We're going to
intercept that RequestDirectMove() call effectively and we
are going to use it to move our AI tanks,
but we're not going to allow the AI to move things in a kinematic way that it
would do if we went down the usual path. By kinematic I mean just moving the Actors
without regards for the physics on them. So we're just going to do the following,
we're going to place all tanks, with TankMovementComponents... I'm looking
on the right-hand side here. All tanks are going to be in the nav mesh,
actually, but also the tank that the Tank AI Controller is possessing, not the Tank AI
Controller itself, necessarily. Look when we play the game and I
depossess, you'll find that we have two AI tanks in the scene right, but the
AI Controllers just happen to be on the tanks right now. We could move those off the tanks, they'll actually
snap back onto them, but I'm just trying to be precise that the Tank AI Controller
is not the tank it's possessing, it just happens to be coincident with the tank it's possessing.
But the tank that the AI Controller is possessing must be in the Nav Mesh bounds, that's this
green area, and the tank that we want to move must also be in
there, which is also the AI tank. But also, the tank we want to move towards, the MoveToActor(),
must also be in the Nav Mesh. So look, what happens is
MoveToActor(), when we pass it the player, it does
some pathfinding logic inside the engine, we don't worry about the details.
So inside the Tank AI controller we will call a method that is MoveToActor()
and pass the player tank, some magic Pathfinding Logic will go on,
and then, each frame, it will spit out a RequestDirectMove(). It will spit out a vector,
a direction in which it wants to start moving, in order to get
it from where it is to where it wants to be. So for example, if we take a Top
view now of our world and go F11, and we put a tank,
an AI tank... Let's say... Let's just stop playing, because it's a bit confusing
with my tank flying all over the place. OK so imagine we have this AI
tank and it's sitting here and that my player tank, I'll use the other AI tank
like a war board, is sitting on the left here. If this tank wants to get to me it can't
go straight over this hill, it's going to go something like this, around the edge of the hill
in a fairly natural way. It's easy for us to work out that that's the path
but it's not so easy, we need a bit of intelligence to work that out,
from the computer. And it's not even easy for us, by the way, when the path gets complicated.
You could actually build a maze. And hey, why don't you! Why don't you build a maze and share it on the community site,
in the terrain, and that will show that if there's a solution to the maze, the AI tanks
will actually navigate that maze. That's pretty cool! But the point is that
here is the player position. This AI tank
we call MoveToActor() and the Actor is the player.
The Pathfinding Logic works out where to go next and spits out a Request
DirectMove() vector. That initial vector, the first frame, will be in this direction
towards that tip, and then the next frame there, then the next frame there. Then, we can steer the
corner, it'll start changing to this way and then this way. OK so the Request
DirectMove() vector is a vector in the direction that the
pathfinding wants to go. It's not aligned straight towards the player, if it was none of this
would be necessary. It would be very very trivial to make the AI tanks, or they wouldn't be
AI, at this point, they'd be stupid tanks. It would be very trivial to make stupid tanks go straight
towards us, but of course, they'd be going right over the top of a hill, that may not be possible physically.
OK cool! So hopefully that makes sense. I'm going to leave the AI tanks in a
slightly different place. One off the Nav Mesh, one just behind the hill, I think I might even move
the Player Start soon, but for now, I'd like to be able to see both tanks,
then we'll start moving tanks around the corner. OK enough talking about
that. That is basically the overview. This is the system we're going to
use. In the next video we're going to implement this Move To Controller method, on the
AI Controller, and the RequestDirectMove(), and we're going to start thinking about actually getting these
AI tanks homing in on us. It's going to be scary! So I'll see you in there!